The Joe Rogan experience. We watched contact.
Again. Now I haven't seen contact in forever. And, uh, first of all,
God what a good movie that was movie.
That's a good movie and a great movie about
aliens. Like,
like a movie that it gives you a different
perspective on the possibilities of contact. And,
and just the fact that it was a Carl Sagan book,
and there's just so much good to it. That character that you played was,
uh, as a fascinating guy.
And I kind of feel like there's some of you in that guy. Sure.
I mean, you are, you are, am I wrong here?
You are religious in some way. Yeah.
Absolutely. And I wanna,
I want to bring this up in this day and age when people go, no,
I'm not religious. I'm only spiritual.
You know what the Latin root of religion is
[inaudible] and [inaudible] means to bind together. Re means again,
well, in a world they're saying I'm only spiritual because I want unity.
That's exactly what religion means.
We bastardized the meaning of it over time and we've excluded people and
we've corporatized it as such. But yes, I am religious.
I'm that character, you know, I had written stories,
I'd written a college paper called John Wayne goes west,
and it was about how do you, how do,
how can you be a believer in a world of science?
And I remember writing things like during the making of that movie,
like science is the practical pursuit of God. Um,
the two are not exclusive. Uh, th th they, they, they danced together. They're,
they're, they, they go together, um, belief in science,
and I never saw those as contradictions. And that's part of what,
the reason I attacked that role and became a part of that, that movie.
I wanted to play a person that had that point of view of a believer in a world
of science,
not at the exclusion of science and not the exclusion of belief.
Yeah. It's a confusing role for a lot of people.
If someone is a believer and also a proponent of science,
um, because they want to know what are your literal beliefs like?
D are you taking the Bible at its literal word,
or do you use it as some sort of a guide book of the
experiences of these people that lived thousands of years ago that have been
translated from multiple different languages back to English?
And is there wisdom in those translations?
Is there wisdom in those original thoughts,
these thousands of years of people contemplating and,
and mulling on these things and that so many have used these
as a scaffolding for morals and ethics and for
societies. Yeah.
It's, it's it's I mean, you know, for people that go, oh, it's,
it's, it's, it's, uh,
it's a circus book or people that are non-believers and I'm like, well,
it's still the best one going. Um, there's a lot of great truths that,
that, that, that come out of the Bible and it is open for a lot of people.
It has been interpreted and reinterpreted, it has been translated,
has been handed down. Um, I, for myself,
I don't know what to do in my daily life with the burning Bush.
I don't know what to do with that. Um,
I do know what to do with love your neighbor like yourself.
I do know what to do with Matthew 6 22.
If they IB single that whole body will be full of light.
I do know what to do with some Proverbs that I can take into daily practice and
go, oh, I felt my life. I felt improvement.
I felt success in my relationships and my relationship with the day with my
career, by following that, um,
by treating others how I wanted to be treated the golden rule. So I,
I take the practical stuff myself, um,
and try to try to utilize it and then pick out what can work for me.
When you say you don't know what to do with the burning Bush, like,
what do you mean by that? I.
Don't know what to do on a daily basis with the teaching of, um, and,
and then he, you know, and then he here, he showed up as a,
as a burning Bush or the magic tricks. And I don't know what to do with,
and Jesus healed everyone that,
and then he couldn't walk and now he does it when he can walk.
I don't know what to do with that. I don't,
I don't know how to take that into my life and go, oh,
there's something useful and practical and healthy for you, Matthew,
that you can practice there. So the magic, um,
that leans in towards, you know, what we would call now more fantasy.
I don't know what to do with that. I there's, there's philosophies,
there's Proverbs and there's teachings that I think are very valid and very
helpful, um,
that we could all be reminded of that are in the Bible that I do find quite
useful.
Yeah. I think it's almost impossible to figure out what they were trying to
say with a lot of the things. It's why it's, so it's open to interpretation,
but also open to manipulation.
And that's where people have a real problem with it when it's used for, to,
to separate people, to exclude people,
to marginalize people, to judge people. But it's,
it's hard for people that understand that,
those aspects and that those things happen to actually parse out that there's
good about it too.
And that there's a lot of really valuable lessons in these books.
A hundred percent. Um, I, I get it. I mean, you, you know,
it's like, uh, what are our, what are our fathers teachers?
So your father shall live.
Hmm. Well, I don't really know him. I've have complicated family history.
Okay. Well fathers or father figures.
Father, he's still alive and I'm close to him. Well.
That brother, and when he goes,
you'll find that some things where the messenger and the message weren't born in
simpatico,
you know what I mean is that if you throw the messenger app and you're like, oh,
you weren't following all that stuff. No,
you take the message that this is the stuff that you can, that,
that could work for you, that maybe they wanted it for you.
They couldn't follow through on it themselves.
There's certain parts of the Bible that had that too.
You don't throw out the whole, you can't,
I don't think it makes any sense to throw out the whole book.
It's what we're doing in society now. I mean, we're, we're, we're, we're,
we're making people persona non grata, uh,
because of something they do or, you know, and, and that is,
that is right now deemed wrong. Uh,
or it's the hot point and a hot topic right now.
You can't erase someone's entire existence where the heck does some
forgiveness go. And again, that like optimism,
it's not erasing the crisis. It's not saying there wasn't a problem. First.
It's not saying that there's verge parts of the Bible that had been people have
bastardized and used in the wrong way. Um,
but you don't throw the whole book out and say, well, it's all, it's all bad.
Then it's all of these because it's false.
D have you encountered difficulty expressing
this? Uh, in Hollywood,
Hollywood is a predominantly left wing and very
secular or Jewish in some circles,
but it's not like a place where Christian fundamental
values are espoused openly. You know, a lot,
a lot of Jewish folks are in Hollywood.
And that seems to be okay with a lot of people,
but some other religions,
particularly if you're a fundamentalist Christian,
or if you have Christian values, a lot of people frown upon that. Why, why,
why do you think that is? And have you, have you had difficulties with that?
I don't know. I haven't had difficulties. I have had,
and I won't throw any people under the bus, but I have had, um,
moments where I was on stage receiving an award in front of my peers in
Hollywood.
And there were people in the crowd that I have prayed with before dinners,
many times. And when I think God,
I saw some of those people go to clap, but then notice that
bad thing on my resume and then sit back on their hands.
Oh, wow.
And I've seen people read the room and go, whoa,
that wouldn't bode well for me in the future,
if forgetting a job or you're getting votes or what have
you. Um, I have seen that I've witnessed that. Um, I don't,
I don't judge him for it. I just wish, you know, th th that,
it seems like a silly argument that there's a,
you know, one of the things that are, are, are people,
some people in our industry, not all this,
there's some that go to the left so far as,
uh, our friend Jordan Peterson, who back. Um,
so I was video being back that go to the air liberal left side
so far, that is so condescending and patronizing to
50% of the world that need the empathy
that the liberal side gives and should give, um, to,
to, to, to throw somebody illegitimized them,
because they say they are believer
is just so arrogant. Uh, and in some ways hypocritical to me.
Um, yeah, so I haven't run into, you know,
I haven't had budded trouble on that, but I've always looked my, my career.
I've pretty much gone my own,
my own path and by hook or by crook,
trying to figure out a way out and to, into what I was doing. And I haven't,
I haven't measured or noticed where it has harmed or gotten in my way of what I
wanted to achieve in, in Hollywood.
Episodes of the Joe Rogan experience are now free on Spotify. That's right.
They're free from September 1st to December 1st,
they're going to be available everywhere, but after December 1st,
they will only be available on Spotify, but they will be free.
That includes the video. The video will also be there. It'll also be free.
That's all we're asking you. Just go download Spotify.